The Giza pyramid complex (also called the 
Giza necropolis) is the site on the Giza 
Plateau in Greater Cairo, Egypt that incl
udes the Great Pyramid of Giza, the Pyram
id of Khafre, and the Pyramid of Menkaure
, along with the Great Sphinx of Giza. 
All were built during the Fourth Dynasty o
f the Old Kingdom of Ancient Egypt, betwe
en 2600 and 2500 BC.

The site is at the edges of the Western De
sert, approximately 9 kilometres west of 
the Nile River in the city of Giza.

The Great Pyramid and the Pyramid of Khafr
e are the largest pyramids built in ancie
nt Egypt, and they have historically been
 common as emblems of Ancient Egypt in th
e Western imagination. 
It is by far the 
oldest of the Ancient Wonders and the onl
y one still in existence.

The Giza pyramid complex consists of the G
reat Pyramid (also known as the Pyramid o
f Cheops), the somewhat smaller Pyramid o
f Khafre (or Chephren), and the relativel
y modest-sized Pyramid of Menkaure (or My
kerinos). 
The Great Sphinx lies on the e
ast side of the complex. 
Current consens
us among Egyptologists is that the head o
f the Great Sphinx is that of Khafre. 
Al
ong with these major monuments are a numb
er of smaller satellite edifices, known a
s "queens" pyramids, causeways and valley
 pyramids.

The pyramids of Giza and others are though
t to have been constructed to house the r
emains of the deceased pharaohs who ruled
 over Ancient Egypt. 
A portion of the ph
araoh's spirit was believed to remain wit
h his corpse.

Most construction theories are based on th
e idea that the pyramids were built by mo
ving huge stones from a quarry and draggi
ng and lifting them into place. 
Disagree
ments arise over the feasibility of the d
ifferent proposed methods by which the st
ones were conveyed and placed.

In building the pyramids, the architects m
ight have developed their techniques over
 time. 
They would select a site on a rel
atively flat area of bedrockвЂ”not sandвЂ
”which provided a stable foundation. 
Aft
er carefully surveying the site and layin
g down the first level of stones, they co
nstructed the pyramids in horizontal leve
ls, one on top of the other.

To ensure that the pyramid remained symmet
rical, the exterior casing stones all had
 to be equal in height and width. 
Worker
s might have marked all the blocks to ind
icate the angle of the pyramid wall and t
rimmed the surfaces carefully so that the
 blocks fit together.

The site was inscribed on the UNESCO World
 Heritage List in 1979. 
The Great Pyrami
d of Giza, largest and oldest of the thre
e pyramids at the Giza Necropolis was gra
nted honorary status in the New 7 Wonders
 of the World list.



==============
	The Giza pyramid complex (also called the Giza necropolis) is the site on the Giza Plateau in Greater Cairo, Egypt that includes the Great Pyramid of Giza, the Pyramid of Khafre, and the Pyramid of Menkaure, along with the Great Sphinx of Giza. All were built during the Fourth Dynasty of the Old Kingdom of Ancient Egypt, between 2600 and 2500 BC.

	The site is at the edges of the Western Desert, approximately 9 kilometres west of the Nile River in the city of Giza.

	The Great Pyramid and the Pyramid of Khafre are the largest pyramids built in ancient Egypt, and they have historically been common as emblems of Ancient Egypt in the Western imagination. It is by far the oldest of the Ancient Wonders and the only one still in existence.

	The Giza pyramid complex consists of the Great Pyramid (also known as the Pyramid of Cheops), the somewhat smaller Pyramid of Khafre (or Chephren), and the relatively modest-sized Pyramid of Menkaure (or Mykerinos). The Great Sphinx lies on the east side of the complex. Current consensus among Egyptologists is that the head of the Great Sphinx is that of Khafre. Along with these major monuments are a number of smaller satellite edifices, known as "queens" pyramids, causeways and valley pyramids.

	The pyramids of Giza and others are thought to have been constructed to house the remains of the deceased pharaohs who ruled over Ancient Egypt. A portion of the pharaoh's spirit was believed to remain with his corpse.

	Most construction theories are based on the idea that the pyramids were built by moving huge stones from a quarry and dragging and lifting them into place. Disagreements arise over the feasibility of the different proposed methods by which the stones were conveyed and placed.

	In building the pyramids, the architects might have developed their techniques over time. They would select a site on a relatively flat area of bedrock—not sand—which provided a stable foundation. After carefully surveying the site and laying down the first level of stones, they constructed the pyramids in horizontal levels, one on top of the other.

	To ensure that the pyramid remained symmetrical, the exterior casing stones all had to be equal in height and width. Workers might have marked all the blocks to indicate the angle of the pyramid wall and trimmed the surfaces carefully so that the blocks fit together.

	The site was inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1979. The Great Pyramid of Giza, largest and oldest of the three pyramids at the Giza Necropolis was granted honorary status in the New 7 Wonders of the World list.